docs/docker/README.md, before:

# MinIO Docker Quickstart Guide [![Slack](https://slack.min.io/slack?type=svg)](https://slack.min.io) [![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/minio/minio.svg?maxAge=604800)](https://hub.docker.com/r/minio/minio/)

## Prerequisites
Docker installed on your machine. Download the relevant installer from [here](https://www.docker.com/community-edition#/download).

## Run Standalone MinIO on Docker.
MinIO needs a persistent volume to store configuration and application data. However, for testing purposes, you can launch MinIO by simply passing a directory (`/data` in the example below). This directory gets created in the container filesystem at the time of container start. But all the data is lost after container exits.

```sh
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  minio/minio server /data
```

To create a MinIO container with persistent storage, you need to map local persistent directories from the host OS to virtual config `~/.minio` and export `/data` directories. To do this, run the below commands

#### GNU/Linux and macOS
```sh
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  --name minio1 \
  -v /mnt/data:/data \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  minio/minio server /data
```

#### Windows
```sh
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  --name minio1 \
  -v D:\data:/data \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  minio/minio server /data
```

## Run Distributed MinIO on Docker
Distributed MinIO can be deployed via [Docker Compose](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-docker-compose) or [Swarm mode](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-docker-swarm). The major difference between these two being, Docker Compose creates a single host, multi-container deployment, while Swarm mode creates a multi-host, multi-container deployment.

This means Docker Compose lets you quickly get started with Distributed MinIO on your computer - ideal for development, testing, staging environments. While deploying Distributed MinIO on Swarm offers a more robust, production level deployment.

## MinIO Docker Tips

### MinIO Custom Access and Secret Keys
To override MinIO's auto-generated keys, you may pass secret and access keys explicitly as environment variables. MinIO server also allows regular strings as access and secret keys.

#### GNU/Linux and macOS
```sh
docker run -p 9000:9000 --name minio1 \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  -v /mnt/data:/data \
  minio/minio server /data
```

#### Windows
```powershell
docker run -p 9000:9000 --name minio1 \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  -v D:\data:/data \
  minio/minio server /data
```

### Run MinIO Docker as a regular user
Docker provides standardized mechanisms to run docker containers as non-root users.

#### GNU/Linux and macOS
On Linux and macOS you can use `--user` to run the container as regular user.

> NOTE: make sure --user has write permission to *${HOME}/data* prior to using `--user`.
```sh
mkdir -p ${HOME}/data
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  --user $(id -u):$(id -g) \
  --name minio1 \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMIK7MDENGbPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  -v ${HOME}/data:/data \
  minio/minio server /data
```

#### Windows
On windows you would need to use [Docker integrated windows authentication](https://success.docker.com/article/modernizing-traditional-dot-net-applications#integratedwindowsauthentication) and [Create a container with Active Directory Support](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/containerstuff/2017/01/30/create-a-container-with-active-directory-support/)

> NOTE: make sure your AD/Windows user has write permissions to *D:\data* prior to using `credentialspec=`.

```powershell
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  --name minio1 \
  --security-opt "credentialspec=file://myuser.json"
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMIK7MDENGbPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  -v D:\data:/data \
  minio/minio server /data
```

### MinIO Custom Access and Secret Keys using Docker secrets
To override MinIO's auto-generated keys, you may pass secret and access keys explicitly by creating access and secret keys as [Docker secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/). MinIO server also allows regular strings as access and secret keys.

```
echo "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" | docker secret create access_key -
echo "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" | docker secret create secret_key -
```

Create a MinIO service using `docker service` to read from Docker secrets.
```
docker service create --name="minio-service" --secret="access_key" --secret="secret_key" minio/minio server /data
```

Read more about `docker service` [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/how-swarm-mode-works/services/)

#### MinIO Custom Access and Secret Key files
To use other secret names follow the instructions above and replace `access_key` and `secret_key` with your custom names (e.g. `my_secret_key`,`my_custom_key`). Run your service with
```
docker service create --name="minio-service" \
  --secret="my_access_key" \
  --secret="my_secret_key" \
  --env="MINIO_ACCESS_KEY_FILE=my_access_key" \
  --env="MINIO_SECRET_KEY_FILE=my_secret_key" \
  minio/minio server /data
```

### Retrieving Container ID
To use Docker commands on a specific container, you need to know the `Container ID` for that container. To get the `Container ID`, run

```sh
docker ps -a
```

`-a` flag makes sure you get all the containers (Created, Running, Exited). Then identify the `Container ID` from the output.

### Starting and Stopping Containers
To start a stopped container, you can use the [`docker start`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/start/) command.

```sh
docker start <container_id>
```

To stop a running container, you can use the [`docker stop`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/stop/) command.
```sh
docker stop <container_id>
```

### MinIO container logs
To access MinIO logs, you can use the [`docker logs`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/logs/) command.

```sh
docker logs <container_id>
```

### Monitor MinIO Docker Container
To monitor the resources used by MinIO container, you can use the [`docker stats`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/stats/) command.

```sh
docker stats <container_id>
```

## Explore Further

* [Deploy MinIO on Docker Compose](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-docker-compose)
* [Deploy MinIO on Docker Swarm](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-docker-swarm)
* [Distributed MinIO Quickstart Guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/distributed-minio-quickstart-guide)
* [MinIO Erasure Code QuickStart Guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-erasure-code-quickstart-guide)

Commit message:

Support custom paths for secret files in docker-entrypoint.sh

docs/docker/README.md, after:

# MinIO Docker Quickstart Guide [![Slack](https://slack.min.io/slack?type=svg)](https://slack.min.io) [![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/minio/minio.svg?maxAge=604800)](https://hub.docker.com/r/minio/minio/)

## Prerequisites
Docker installed on your machine. Download the relevant installer from [here](https://www.docker.com/community-edition#/download).

## Run Standalone MinIO on Docker.
MinIO needs a persistent volume to store configuration and application data. However, for testing purposes, you can launch MinIO by simply passing a directory (`/data` in the example below). This directory gets created in the container filesystem at the time of container start. But all the data is lost after container exits.

```sh
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  minio/minio server /data
```

To create a MinIO container with persistent storage, you need to map local persistent directories from the host OS to virtual config `~/.minio` and export `/data` directories. To do this, run the below commands

#### GNU/Linux and macOS
```sh
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  --name minio1 \
  -v /mnt/data:/data \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  minio/minio server /data
```

#### Windows
```sh
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  --name minio1 \
  -v D:\data:/data \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  minio/minio server /data
```

## Run Distributed MinIO on Docker
Distributed MinIO can be deployed via [Docker Compose](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-docker-compose) or [Swarm mode](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-docker-swarm). The major difference between these two being, Docker Compose creates a single host, multi-container deployment, while Swarm mode creates a multi-host, multi-container deployment.

This means Docker Compose lets you quickly get started with Distributed MinIO on your computer - ideal for development, testing, staging environments. While deploying Distributed MinIO on Swarm offers a more robust, production level deployment.

## MinIO Docker Tips

### MinIO Custom Access and Secret Keys
To override MinIO's auto-generated keys, you may pass secret and access keys explicitly as environment variables. MinIO server also allows regular strings as access and secret keys.

#### GNU/Linux and macOS
```sh
docker run -p 9000:9000 --name minio1 \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  -v /mnt/data:/data \
  minio/minio server /data
```

#### Windows
```powershell
docker run -p 9000:9000 --name minio1 \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  -v D:\data:/data \
  minio/minio server /data
```

### Run MinIO Docker as a regular user
Docker provides standardized mechanisms to run docker containers as non-root users.

#### GNU/Linux and macOS
On Linux and macOS you can use `--user` to run the container as regular user.

> NOTE: make sure --user has write permission to *${HOME}/data* prior to using `--user`.
```sh
mkdir -p ${HOME}/data
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  --user $(id -u):$(id -g) \
  --name minio1 \
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMIK7MDENGbPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  -v ${HOME}/data:/data \
  minio/minio server /data
```

#### Windows
On windows you would need to use [Docker integrated windows authentication](https://success.docker.com/article/modernizing-traditional-dot-net-applications#integratedwindowsauthentication) and [Create a container with Active Directory Support](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/containerstuff/2017/01/30/create-a-container-with-active-directory-support/)

> NOTE: make sure your AD/Windows user has write permissions to *D:\data* prior to using `credentialspec=`.

```powershell
docker run -p 9000:9000 \
  --name minio1 \
  --security-opt "credentialspec=file://myuser.json"
  -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" \
  -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMIK7MDENGbPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" \
  -v D:\data:/data \
  minio/minio server /data
```

### MinIO Custom Access and Secret Keys using Docker secrets
To override MinIO's auto-generated keys, you may pass secret and access keys explicitly by creating access and secret keys as [Docker secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/). MinIO server also allows regular strings as access and secret keys.

```
echo "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE" | docker secret create access_key -
echo "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY" | docker secret create secret_key -
```

Create a MinIO service using `docker service` to read from Docker secrets.
```
docker service create --name="minio-service" --secret="access_key" --secret="secret_key" minio/minio server /data
```

Read more about `docker service` [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/how-swarm-mode-works/services/)

#### MinIO Custom Access and Secret Key files
To use other secret names follow the instructions above and replace `access_key` and `secret_key` with your custom names (e.g. `my_secret_key`,`my_custom_key`). Run your service with
```
docker service create --name="minio-service" \
  --secret="my_access_key" \
  --secret="my_secret_key" \
  --env="MINIO_ACCESS_KEY_FILE=my_access_key" \
  --env="MINIO_SECRET_KEY_FILE=my_secret_key" \
  minio/minio server /data
```
`MINIO_ACCESS_KEY_FILE` and `MINIO_SECRET_KEY_FILE` also support custom absolute paths, in case Docker secrets are mounted to custom locations or other tools are used to mount secrets into the container. For example, HashiCorp Vault injects secrets to `/vault/secrets`. With the custom names above, set the environment variables to
```
MINIO_ACCESS_KEY_FILE=/vault/secrets/my_access_key
MINIO_SECRET_KEY_FILE=/vault/secrets/my_secret_key
```

### Retrieving Container ID
To use Docker commands on a specific container, you need to know the `Container ID` for that container. To get the `Container ID`, run

```sh
docker ps -a
```

`-a` flag makes sure you get all the containers (Created, Running, Exited). Then identify the `Container ID` from the output.

### Starting and Stopping Containers
To start a stopped container, you can use the [`docker start`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/start/) command.

```sh
docker start <container_id>
```

To stop a running container, you can use the [`docker stop`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/stop/) command.
```sh
docker stop <container_id>
```

### MinIO container logs
To access MinIO logs, you can use the [`docker logs`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/logs/) command.

```sh
docker logs <container_id>
```

### Monitor MinIO Docker Container
To monitor the resources used by MinIO container, you can use the [`docker stats`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/stats/) command.

```sh
docker stats <container_id>
```

## Explore Further

* [Deploy MinIO on Docker Compose](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-docker-compose)
* [Deploy MinIO on Docker Swarm](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-docker-swarm)
* [Distributed MinIO Quickstart Guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/distributed-minio-quickstart-guide)
* [MinIO Erasure Code QuickStart Guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-erasure-code-quickstart-guide)
