docs/metrics/prometheus/list.md, before:

# List of metrics reported cluster wide

Each metric includes a label for the server that calculated the metric.
Each metric has a label for the server that generated the metric.

These metrics can be from any MinIO server once per collection.

| Name                                           | Description                                                                                                                 |
|:-----------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|`minio_bucket_objects_size_distribution`        |Distribution of object sizes in the bucket, includes label for the bucket name.                                              |
|`minio_bucket_replication_failed_bytes`         |Total number of bytes failed at least once to replicate.                                                                     |
|`minio_bucket_replication_pending_bytes`        |Total bytes pending to replicate.                                                                                            |
|`minio_bucket_replication_received_bytes`       |Total number of bytes replicated to this bucket from another source bucket.                                                  |
|`minio_bucket_replication_sent_bytes`           |Total number of bytes replicated to the target bucket.                                                                       |
|`minio_bucket_usage_object_total`               |Total number of objects                                                                                                      |
|`minio_bucket_usage_total_bytes`                |Total bucket size in bytes                                                                                                   |
|`minio_cache_hits_total`                        |Total number of disk cache hits                                                                                              |
|`minio_cache_missed_total`                      |Total number of disk cache misses                                                                                            |
|`minio_cache_sent_bytes`                        |Total number of bytes served from cache                                                                                      |
|`minio_cache_total_bytes`                       |Total size of cache disk in bytes                                                                                            |
|`minio_cache_usage_info`                        |Total percentage cache usage, value of 1 indicates high and 0 low, label level is set as well                                |
|`minio_cache_used_bytes`                        |Current cache usage in bytes                                                                                                 |
|`minio_cluster_capacity_raw_free_bytes`         |Total free capacity online in the cluster.                                                                                   |
|`minio_cluster_capacity_raw_total_bytes`        |Total capacity online in the cluster.                                                                                        |
|`minio_cluster_capacity_usable_free_bytes`      |Total free usable capacity online in the cluster.                                                                            |
|`minio_cluster_capacity_usable_total_bytes`     |Total usable capacity online in the cluster.                                                                                 |
|`minio_cluster_nodes_offline_total`             |Total number of MinIO nodes offline.                                                                                         |
|`minio_cluster_nodes_online_total`              |Total number of MinIO nodes online.                                                                                          |
|`minio_heal_objects_error_total`                |Objects for which healing failed in current self healing run                                                                 |
|`minio_heal_objects_heal_total`                 |Objects healed in current self healing run                                                                                   |
|`minio_heal_objects_total`                      |Objects scanned in current self healing run                                                                                  |
|`minio_heal_time_last_activity_nano_seconds`    |Time elapsed (in nano seconds) since last self healing activity. This is set to -1 until initial self heal activity          |
|`minio_inter_node_traffic_received_bytes`       |Total number of bytes received from other peer nodes.                                                                        |
|`minio_inter_node_traffic_sent_bytes`           |Total number of bytes sent to the other peer nodes.                                                                          |
|`minio_node_disk_free_bytes`                    |Total storage available on a disk.                                                                                           |
|`minio_node_disk_total_bytes`                   |Total storage on a disk.                                                                                                     |
|`minio_node_disk_used_bytes`                    |Total storage used on a disk.                                                                                                |
|`minio_node_file_descriptor_limit_total`        |Limit on total number of open file descriptors for the MinIO Server process.                                                 |
|`minio_node_file_descriptor_open_total`         |Total number of open file descriptors by the MinIO Server process.                                                           |
|`minio_node_io_rchar_bytes`                     |Total bytes read by the process from the underlying storage system including cache, /proc/[pid]/io rchar                     |
|`minio_node_io_read_bytes`                      |Total bytes read by the process from the underlying storage system, /proc/[pid]/io read_bytes                                |
|`minio_node_io_wchar_bytes`                     |Total bytes written by the process to the underlying storage system including page cache, /proc/[pid]/io wchar               |
|`minio_node_io_write_bytes`                     |Total bytes written by the process to the underlying storage system, /proc/[pid]/io write_bytes                              |
|`minio_node_process_starttime_seconds`          |Start time for MinIO process per node, time in seconds since Unix epoc.                                                      |
|`minio_node_process_uptime_seconds`             |Uptime for MinIO process per node in seconds.                                                                                |
|`minio_node_syscall_read_total`                 |Total read SysCalls to the kernel. /proc/[pid]/io syscr                                                                      |
|`minio_node_syscall_write_total`                |Total write SysCalls to the kernel. /proc/[pid]/io syscw                                                                     |
|`minio_s3_requests_error_total`                 |Total number S3 requests with errors                                                                                         |
|`minio_s3_requests_inflight_total`              |Total number of S3 requests currently in flight                                                                              |
|`minio_s3_requests_total`                       |Total number S3 requests                                                                                                     |
|`minio_s3_time_ttbf_seconds_distribution`       |Distribution of the time to first byte across API calls.                                                                     |
|`minio_s3_traffic_received_bytes`               |Total number of s3 bytes received.                                                                                           |
|`minio_s3_traffic_sent_bytes`                   |Total number of s3 bytes sent                                                                                                |
|`minio_software_commit_info`                    |Git commit hash for the MinIO release.                                                                                       |
|`minio_software_version_info`                   |MinIO Release tag for the server                                                                                             |

Commit message:

Various improvements in replication (#11949)
- collect real time replication metrics for prometheus.
- add pending_count, failed_count metric for total pending/failed replication operations.

- add API to get replication metrics

- add MRF worker to handle spill-over replication operations

- multiple issues found with replication
- fixes an issue when client sends a bucket
 name with `/` at the end from SetRemoteTarget
 API call make sure to trim the bucket name to 
 avoid any extra `/`.

- hold write locks in GetObjectNInfo during replication
  to ensure that object version stack is not overwritten
  while reading the content.

- add additional protection during WriteMetadata() to
  ensure that we always write a valid FileInfo{} and avoid
  ever writing empty FileInfo{} to the lowest layers.

Co-authored-by: Poorna Krishnamoorthy <poorna@minio.io>
Co-authored-by: Harshavardhana <harsha@minio.io>

docs/metrics/prometheus/list.md, after:

# List of metrics reported cluster wide

Each metric includes a label for the server that calculated the metric.
Each metric has a label for the server that generated the metric.

These metrics can be from any MinIO server once per collection.

| Name                                           | Description                                                                                                                 |
|:-----------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|`minio_bucket_objects_size_distribution`        |Distribution of object sizes in the bucket, includes label for the bucket name.                                              |
|`minio_bucket_replication_failed_bytes`         |Total number of bytes failed at least once to replicate.                                                                     |
|`minio_bucket_replication_pending_bytes`        |Total bytes pending to replicate.                                                                                            |
|`minio_bucket_replication_received_bytes`       |Total number of bytes replicated to this bucket from another source bucket.                                                  |
|`minio_bucket_replication_sent_bytes`           |Total number of bytes replicated to the target bucket.                                                                       |
|`minio_bucket_replication_pending_count`        |Total number of replication operations pending for this bucket.                                                                  |
|`minio_bucket_usage_object_total`               |Total number of objects                                                                                                      |
|`minio_bucket_usage_total_bytes`                |Total bucket size in bytes                                                                                                   |
|`minio_cache_hits_total`                        |Total number of disk cache hits                                                                                              |
|`minio_cache_missed_total`                      |Total number of disk cache misses                                                                                            |
|`minio_cache_sent_bytes`                        |Total number of bytes served from cache                                                                                      |
|`minio_cache_total_bytes`                       |Total size of cache disk in bytes                                                                                            |
|`minio_cache_usage_info`                        |Total percentage cache usage, value of 1 indicates high and 0 low, label level is set as well                                |
|`minio_cache_used_bytes`                        |Current cache usage in bytes                                                                                                 |
|`minio_cluster_capacity_raw_free_bytes`         |Total free capacity online in the cluster.                                                                                   |
|`minio_cluster_capacity_raw_total_bytes`        |Total capacity online in the cluster.                                                                                        |
|`minio_cluster_capacity_usable_free_bytes`      |Total free usable capacity online in the cluster.                                                                            |
|`minio_cluster_capacity_usable_total_bytes`     |Total usable capacity online in the cluster.                                                                                 |
|`minio_cluster_nodes_offline_total`             |Total number of MinIO nodes offline.                                                                                         |
|`minio_cluster_nodes_online_total`              |Total number of MinIO nodes online.                                                                                          |
|`minio_heal_objects_error_total`                |Objects for which healing failed in current self healing run                                                                 |
|`minio_heal_objects_heal_total`                 |Objects healed in current self healing run                                                                                   |
|`minio_heal_objects_total`                      |Objects scanned in current self healing run                                                                                  |
|`minio_heal_time_last_activity_nano_seconds`    |Time elapsed (in nano seconds) since last self healing activity. This is set to -1 until initial self heal activity          |
|`minio_inter_node_traffic_received_bytes`       |Total number of bytes received from other peer nodes.                                                                        |
|`minio_inter_node_traffic_sent_bytes`           |Total number of bytes sent to the other peer nodes.                                                                          |
|`minio_node_disk_free_bytes`                    |Total storage available on a disk.                                                                                           |
|`minio_node_disk_total_bytes`                   |Total storage on a disk.                                                                                                     |
|`minio_node_disk_used_bytes`                    |Total storage used on a disk.                                                                                                |
|`minio_node_file_descriptor_limit_total`        |Limit on total number of open file descriptors for the MinIO Server process.                                                 |
|`minio_node_file_descriptor_open_total`         |Total number of open file descriptors by the MinIO Server process.                                                           |
|`minio_node_io_rchar_bytes`                     |Total bytes read by the process from the underlying storage system including cache, /proc/[pid]/io rchar                     |
|`minio_node_io_read_bytes`                      |Total bytes read by the process from the underlying storage system, /proc/[pid]/io read_bytes                                |
|`minio_node_io_wchar_bytes`                     |Total bytes written by the process to the underlying storage system including page cache, /proc/[pid]/io wchar               |
|`minio_node_io_write_bytes`                     |Total bytes written by the process to the underlying storage system, /proc/[pid]/io write_bytes                              |
|`minio_node_process_starttime_seconds`          |Start time for MinIO process per node, time in seconds since Unix epoc.                                                      |
|`minio_node_process_uptime_seconds`             |Uptime for MinIO process per node in seconds.                                                                                |
|`minio_node_syscall_read_total`                 |Total read SysCalls to the kernel. /proc/[pid]/io syscr                                                                      |
|`minio_node_syscall_write_total`                |Total write SysCalls to the kernel. /proc/[pid]/io syscw                                                                     |
|`minio_s3_requests_error_total`                 |Total number S3 requests with errors                                                                                         |
|`minio_s3_requests_inflight_total`              |Total number of S3 requests currently in flight                                                                              |
|`minio_s3_requests_total`                       |Total number S3 requests                                                                                                     |
|`minio_s3_time_ttbf_seconds_distribution`       |Distribution of the time to first byte across API calls.                                                                     |
|`minio_s3_traffic_received_bytes`               |Total number of s3 bytes received.                                                                                           |
|`minio_s3_traffic_sent_bytes`                   |Total number of s3 bytes sent                                                                                                |
|`minio_software_commit_info`                    |Git commit hash for the MinIO release.                                                                                       |
|`minio_software_version_info`                   |MinIO Release tag for the server                                                                                             |
