docs/gateway/nas.md, before:

# MinIO NAS Gateway [![Slack](https://slack.min.io/slack?type=svg)](https://slack.min.io)

MinIO Gateway adds Amazon S3 compatibility to NAS storage. You may run multiple minio instances on the same shared NAS volume as a distributed object gateway.

## Run MinIO Gateway for NAS Storage

### Using Docker

Please ensure to replace `/shared/nasvol` with actual mount path.

```
docker run -p 9000:9000 --name nas-s3 \
 -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=minio" \
 -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=minio123" \
 -v /shared/nasvol:/container/vol \
 minio/minio gateway nas /container/vol
```

### Using Binary

```
export MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=minio
export MINIO_SECRET_KEY=minio123
minio gateway nas /shared/nasvol
```

## Test using MinIO Browser

MinIO Gateway comes with an embedded web based object browser. Point your web browser to http://127.0.0.1:9000 to ensure that your server has started successfully.

![Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minio/minio/master/docs/screenshots/minio-browser-gateway.png)

## Test using MinIO Client `mc`

`mc` provides a modern alternative to UNIX commands such as ls, cat, cp, mirror, diff etc. It supports filesystems and Amazon S3 compatible cloud storage services.

### Configure `mc`

```
mc config host add mynas http://gateway-ip:9000 access_key secret_key
```

### List buckets on nas

```
mc ls mynas
[2017-02-22 01:50:43 PST]     0B ferenginar/
[2017-02-26 21:43:51 PST]     0B my-bucket/
[2017-02-26 22:10:11 PST]     0B test-bucket1/
```

## Explore Further
- [`mc` command-line interface](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-client-quickstart-guide)
- [`aws` command-line interface](https://docs.min.io/docs/aws-cli-with-minio)
- [`minio-go` Go SDK](https://docs.min.io/docs/golang-client-quickstart-guide)

Commit message:

Fix config leaks and deprecate file-based config setters in NAS gateway
This PR has the following changes

- Removing duplicate lookupConfigs() calls.
- Deprecate admin config APIs for NAS gateways. This will avoid repeated reloads of the config from the disk.
- WatchConfigNASDisk will be removed
- Migration guide for NAS gateways users to migrate to ENV settings.

NOTE: THIS PR HAS A BREAKING CHANGE

Fixes #9875

 # Please enter the commit message for your changes. Lines starting

docs/gateway/nas.md, after:

# MinIO NAS Gateway [![Slack](https://slack.min.io/slack?type=svg)](https://slack.min.io)

MinIO Gateway adds Amazon S3 compatibility to NAS storage. You may run multiple minio instances on the same shared NAS volume as a distributed object gateway.

## Run MinIO Gateway for NAS Storage

### Using Docker

Please ensure to replace `/shared/nasvol` with actual mount path.

```
docker run -p 9000:9000 --name nas-s3 \
 -e "MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=minio" \
 -e "MINIO_SECRET_KEY=minio123" \
 -v /shared/nasvol:/container/vol \
 minio/minio gateway nas /container/vol
```

### Using Binary

```
export MINIO_ACCESS_KEY=minio
export MINIO_SECRET_KEY=minio123
minio gateway nas /shared/nasvol
```

## Test using MinIO Browser

MinIO Gateway comes with an embedded web based object browser. Point your web browser to http://127.0.0.1:9000 to ensure that your server has started successfully.

![Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/minio/minio/master/docs/screenshots/minio-browser-gateway.png)

## Test using MinIO Client `mc`

`mc` provides a modern alternative to UNIX commands such as ls, cat, cp, mirror, diff etc. It supports filesystems and Amazon S3 compatible cloud storage services.

### Configure `mc`

```
mc config host add mynas http://gateway-ip:9000 access_key secret_key
```

### List buckets on nas

```
mc ls mynas
[2017-02-22 01:50:43 PST]     0B ferenginar/
[2017-02-26 21:43:51 PST]     0B my-bucket/
[2017-02-26 22:10:11 PST]     0B test-bucket1/
```

## Breaking changes

There will be a breaking change after the release version 'RELEASE.2020-06-22T03-12-50Z'.

### The file-based config settings are deprecated in NAS

The support for admin config APIs will be removed. This will include getters and setters like `mc admin config get` and `mc admin config`  and any other `mc admin config` options. The reason for this change is to avoid un-necessary reloads of the config from the disk. And to comply with the Environment variable based settings like other gateways.

### Migration guide

The users who have been using the older config approach should migrate to ENV settings by setting environment variables accordingly.

For example,

Consider the following webhook target config.

```
notify_webhook:1 endpoint=http://localhost:8080/ auth_token= queue_limit=0 queue_dir=/tmp/webhk client_cert= client_key=
```

The corresponding environment variable setting can be

```
export MINIO_NOTIFY_WEBHOOK_ENABLE_1=on
export MINIO_NOTIFY_WEBHOOK_ENDPOINT_1=http://localhost:8080/
export MINIO_NOTIFY_WEBHOOK_QUEUE_DIR_1=/tmp/webhk
```

> NOTE: Please check the docs for the corresponding ENV setting. Alternatively, We can obtain other ENVs in the form `mc admin config set alias/ <sub-sys> --env`

## Explore Further
- [`mc` command-line interface](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-client-quickstart-guide)
- [`aws` command-line interface](https://docs.min.io/docs/aws-cli-with-minio)
- [`minio-go` Go SDK](https://docs.min.io/docs/golang-client-quickstart-guide)
