docs/orchestration/docker-compose/README.md, before:

# Deploy MinIO on Docker Compose [![Slack](https://slack.min.io/slack?type=svg)](https://slack.min.io)  [![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/minio/minio.svg?maxAge=604800)](https://hub.docker.com/r/minio/minio/)

Docker Compose allows defining and running single host, multi-container Docker applications.

With Compose, you use a Compose file to configure MinIO services. Then, using a single command, you can create and launch all the Distributed MinIO instances from your configuration. Distributed MinIO instances will be deployed in multiple containers on the same host. This is a great way to set up development, testing, and staging environments, based on Distributed MinIO. 

## 1. Prerequisites

* Familiarity with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/overview/).
* Docker installed on your machine. Download the relevant installer from [here](https://www.docker.com/community-edition#/download).

## 2. Run Distributed MinIO on Docker Compose

To deploy Distributed MinIO on Docker Compose, please download [docker-compose.yaml](https://github.com/minio/minio/blob/master/docs/orchestration/docker-compose/docker-compose.yaml?raw=true) and [nginx.conf](https://github.com/minio/minio/blob/master/docs/orchestration/docker-compose/nginx.conf?raw=true) to your current working directory. Note that Docker Compose pulls the MinIO Docker image, so there is no need to explicitly download MinIO binary. Then run one of the below commands

### GNU/Linux and macOS

```sh
docker-compose pull
docker-compose up
```

### Windows

```sh
docker-compose.exe pull
docker-compose.exe up
```

Distributed instances are now accessible on the host at ports 9000, proceed to access the Web browser at http://127.0.0.1:9000/. Here 4 MinIO server instances are reverse proxied through Nginx load balancing.

### Notes

* By default the Docker Compose file uses the Docker image for latest MinIO server release. You can change the image tag to pull a specific [MinIO Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/minio/minio/).

* There are 4 minio distributed instances created by default. You can add more MinIO services (up to total 16) to your MinIO Compose deployment. To add a service
  * Replicate a service definition and change the name of the new service appropriately.
  * Update the command section in each service.
  * Add a new MinIO server instance to the upstream directive in the Nginx configuration file.

  Read more about distributed MinIO [here](https://docs.min.io/docs/distributed-minio-quickstart-guide).

### Explore Further
- [Overview of Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/overview/)
- [MinIO Docker Quickstart Guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-docker-quickstart-guide)
- [MinIO Erasure Code QuickStart Guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-erasure-code-quickstart-guide)

Commit message:

docs: mention docker stack deploy doesn't work with compose.yml

docs/orchestration/docker-compose/README.md, after:

# Deploy MinIO on Docker Compose [![Slack](https://slack.min.io/slack?type=svg)](https://slack.min.io)  [![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/minio/minio.svg?maxAge=604800)](https://hub.docker.com/r/minio/minio/)

Docker Compose allows defining and running single host, multi-container Docker applications.

With Compose, you use a Compose file to configure MinIO services. Then, using a single command, you can create and launch all the Distributed MinIO instances from your configuration. Distributed MinIO instances will be deployed in multiple containers on the same host. This is a great way to set up development, testing, and staging environments, based on Distributed MinIO. 

## 1. Prerequisites

* Familiarity with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/overview/).
* Docker installed on your machine. Download the relevant installer from [here](https://www.docker.com/community-edition#/download).

## 2. Run Distributed MinIO on Docker Compose

To deploy Distributed MinIO on Docker Compose, please download [docker-compose.yaml](https://github.com/minio/minio/blob/master/docs/orchestration/docker-compose/docker-compose.yaml?raw=true) and [nginx.conf](https://github.com/minio/minio/blob/master/docs/orchestration/docker-compose/nginx.conf?raw=true) to your current working directory. Note that Docker Compose pulls the MinIO Docker image, so there is no need to explicitly download MinIO binary. Then run one of the below commands

### GNU/Linux and macOS

```sh
docker-compose pull
docker-compose up
```

### Windows

```sh
docker-compose.exe pull
docker-compose.exe up
```

> NOTE: We recommend that you use `docker-compose` instead of `docker stack deploy` - the containers started by `docker stack deploy` get deployed as a single container with a virtual networking layer at routing does not allow MinIO distributed setup to run properly.

Distributed instances are now accessible on the host at ports 9000, proceed to access the Web browser at http://127.0.0.1:9000/. Here 4 MinIO server instances are reverse proxied through Nginx load balancing.

### Notes

* By default the Docker Compose file uses the Docker image for latest MinIO server release. You can change the image tag to pull a specific [MinIO Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/minio/minio/).

* There are 4 minio distributed instances created by default. You can add more MinIO services (up to total 16) to your MinIO Compose deployment. To add a service
  * Replicate a service definition and change the name of the new service appropriately.
  * Update the command section in each service.
  * Add a new MinIO server instance to the upstream directive in the Nginx configuration file.

  Read more about distributed MinIO [here](https://docs.min.io/docs/distributed-minio-quickstart-guide).

### Explore Further
- [Overview of Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/overview/)
- [MinIO Docker Quickstart Guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-docker-quickstart-guide)
- [MinIO Erasure Code QuickStart Guide](https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-erasure-code-quickstart-guide)
